hey sylvie prez here earlier this week
google released
a huge announcement letting the world
know that they are going to get rid of
the broad match modifier
match type in today's video i want to
deep dive on the announcement that
google made
and more so than that i want to talk
about the strategies that i'm thinking
of
that you can implement in a post-broad
match modified being gone
world so that you can still retain as
much control possible
to create profitable google ad campaigns
because you better
believe that if it was up to google and
this is what this is
is they want us to just use pure broad
match
and automated bidding so without further
ado let's get into these changes
so on february 4th 2021 which funny
enough is my birthday
google made the announcement that they
want to help us advertisers
make it easier to reach the right
customers on
search i'm going to link to this
announcement down below so if you
haven't had a chance to look at it you
can look at it in more detail
and basically what google wants to do is
they want to help us simplify our
keyword match types
they want to help simplify our life so
that way we can
reach the right people when they're
actively searching on google that's what
they say at least
and what they're proposing is is they
want to get rid of broad match modifier
because there was a lot of overlap
between phrase match the way it is now
and broad match modifier
so they said hey let's get rid of broad
match modifier let's
update the way phrase match currently
works and let's make
phrase match work similarly to broad
match
modifier now here's the thing
this is what google wants they want us
moving forward
to have exact match for precision so to
reach those very specific searches
they want us to use broad match for
reach meaning pure broad because broad
match modifier is gone
and then they want us to use phrase
match as a balance
between both so you can get some reach
and then you can also get that precision
because now phrase match is going to be
more like broad match modifier
in the sense that it can trigger for
different searches
outside of just what's within the
quotation marks
so i'm going to show you what an example
here that they used
so basically let's say you have the
keyword here that's the example google
uses is moving services
nyc to boston right so this is the
phrase match version
and then the broad match modified
version would be plus moving plus
services plus nyc 2 boston right
so here is an example of how they're
going to start matching
our different queries with this new
match type the new version of phrase
match
so for example affordable moving
services nyc to boston
before if someone searched affordable
moving services nyc to boston
this would be triggered for phrase match
and it would be triggered for broad
match modified because they have all the
words that we specified
now after this search will still be
triggered with the updated phrase match
here's another one nyc corporate moving
services to boston
see nyc corporate moving services to
boston would not
be triggered by phrase match but it
would by broad match modifier so now
moving forward
they're saying this will also get
triggered by the updated phrase match
because it
it's able to widen its targeting
essentially to be able to pick up those
relevant
related searches so basically the new
phrase match is going to be a lot more
based
on machine learning to be able to use
google's intent data
to understand the context of what people
are searching for
and based on that context matching it
with the phrase match
and then last but not least moving
services boston to nyc since this is not
relevant
to the keyword that we're trying to show
up for because we want to show up for
people looking to go from new york to
boston not boston to new york
you won't show up for this with the new
phrase match but you
would have shown up with this with the
current or old broad match modifier
so basically they want to give us a
balance between reach
and precision and on paper this sounds
awesome like totally for it
but here is my opinion in theory
and it's they say it on the page too so
it's it's not even like it's like a
conspiracy theory or anything like that
so you can see
here for example they're saying
moving forward setting your campaign up
for success so one of the best
parts about broad match modifier
yes you can pick up for a lot of things
but the beautiful thing about it was is
you get complete visibility
for those specific types of searches you
want and then you also have control
because you could choose which words
must be in the search
and then by building your negative
keyword list you can really build a very
strong
campaign with broad match modifier
keywords and a very strong negative
keyword list so you're getting that
visibility
but you're also showing up the right
kind of things so now moving forward
with this new phrase match my opinion my
theory
is is that google is saying it's going
to be like broad match modifier
but i have a theory that this new phrase
match
is going to significantly cut off the
amount of clicks and lead volume that
we're getting from our current broad
match modifier campaigns
and if you look on this page you can
literally see here in their setting you
up for success
that they say consider using broad match
with smart bidding if you're concerned
about losing coverage
broad match with smart bidding helps you
reach more relevant searches that meet
your performance objectives
in my opinion that's why we have this
change
is because google wants us to use pure
broad match
so we can show up for as many things
remotely possible and then smart bidding
so they can be in control with our bids
and there's nothing wrong with that this
can work and it can kill i have
campaigns where i'm using pure broad
match
but i'm targeting like a specific
audience so it's pretty laser focused
and it works but you have to have a
really strong negative keyword list
now here's the downside is google made
this
change which is okay fine you want to
make our life easier
sure but you
reduced the amount of search terms that
we can see
in our search terms report because of
privacy
so you want us to use broad match we're
going to show up for all these different
searches and we can't even see
all the searches that we showed up for
to be able to build our negative keyword
list to exclude them from our campaign
i mean you know what i mean like the
proof is there right like just let's see
this as it is right they want us to be
more broad they want us to
open up our targeting and open up our
bidding which is fine
how do we deal with this right because
this is the reality moving forward is
you better believe google facebook
all these platforms what they want is
they want automation to take control of
everything and they want the advertiser
to just press a couple of buttons and
then they're fully in control and if you
don't think that's what these platforms
want
you're kidding yourself like that's what
they want right they want to be
in control and that's fine if their
machine learning technology and
everything like that can produce us the
results we want that's the future that's
where we're headed
but right now moving forward with this
change
and by the way definitely read this
article check it out in the description
box down below
how do we go from here and here's some
thoughts that i have
so in a post broad match modified world
i'm thinking because phrase match again
you're going to have
i'm assuming here this is a guess but
i'm pretty
confident in this is you're going to
have a reduction in click
and lead volume with this new phrase
match match
type despite it matching similar to
broad match like your visibility is
going to tank and google's kind of
hinting it to you by saying if you're
concerned about losing coverage meaning
you're going to lose coverage with the
new phrase match
so my hypothesis moving forward is
in a post-broad match modified world is
it's gonna be
very very important for us moving
forward
from the get-go to separate campaigns by
match type so getting in the habit
for those of you that are newer to
google ads if you're not used to having
a lot of campaigns in your account now
more than ever it's going to be
important for you to get used to it
and i believe moving forward we're going
to have to get in the habit of
separating campaigns by match type from
the get-go
so one campaign would be an exact match
version and then a phrase match version
and then a broad match version i
recommend that you start laser focus
first with the exact in the phrase match
build your negative keyword list first
and then once you're ready to expand
because you've lost volume in terms of
leads and clicks
and you really want to expand reach then
you can create a pure broad match
version
but don't just create a pure broad match
version of course have that negative
keyword list you
you applied into that campaign that you
built up from the phrase and exact
but make sure to use automated rules on
that pure broad match campaign
to regulate the spend and cut off the
bleeding so to speak
if you know you're just blowing out your
budget on certain keywords so that's
kind of my thought process
and then of course in a post-broad match
modified world it's going to be so
important for us
to proactively add in negative keywords
and by proactively i mean just thinking
about
negative keywords that you don't want to
show up for
just by yourself or from ideas talking
with friends or
whatever the case might be because you
have to remember your search terms
report is limited
so you're not going to be able to see
everything so now you got to just start
thinking proactively like
what are bad searches i don't want to
show up for like free
oh am i blocking free yet you know you
got to start thinking about these things
proactively
and reducing the probability or
possibility to even show up for those
things
so that is what i'm thinking in a
post-broad match modified world
i honestly think moving forward will be
okay i'm not really too worried about it
in the sense of
you know our campaign performance is
going to tank or anything i just think
now moving forward
it's going to be so important for us to
separate campaigns by match type
use automated rules if we do have a pure
broad match campaign
but we got to make sure we have a really
solid negative keyword list and then of
course
proactively adding in negative keywords
negative keywords have always been
important but now with search terms
being reduced
and google forcing us to move towards
more open keyword match types
and automated bidding have you tried
creating an ad recently you're gonna see
that they force you to use a responsive
search ad
and then you have to dig to find an
expanded text ad like the clues are here
you know what i mean like they want us
to move towards automation
so in this automation post world
separating campaigns by match type will
allow us to still retain some level of
control
and then we can start more tailored more
specific and then when we're ready for
it
we can go broad if we need to increase
volume of leads and volume of clicks
and so be in sales and all that good
stuff just making sure that we're using
the auto bidding
the automated rules and we are using our
negative keywords
to cut off bleeding hope this video is
valuable as always i post a lot of
content on digital advertising and lead
generation
so if you like this kind of stuff
definitely check out these two videos
here
if you can give the video a thumbs up
that'll help me get this video ranked
higher in the search engines and if you
like content like this be sure to
subscribe to the channel for future
videos
and also go ahead and join the google
ads pro facebook group
and get access to exclusive live
trainings and video series that i only
post in the group
and really connect with awesome google
advertisers that are just looking to
generate leads
and attract clients online with google
ads so without further ado i'll see you
next week have a great one
take care